ETC Course: 3. The First Digital Currency Attempts (#1043)
ethereumclassic/ethereumclassic.github.io: content/blog/2023-01-05-ethereum-classic-course-3-the-first-digital-currency-attempts/index.md

## Hal Finney and RPOW

![RPOW](./rpow.png)

Hal Finney also tried to create a proof of work monetary system based on the Bit Gold model that he called RPOW which stands for Reusable Proofs of Work.

Like HashCash, Bit Gold, and B-money, some of RPOW’s design was incorporated into Bitcoin by Satoshi Nakamoto and also forms part of ETC’s blueprint.

RPOW consisted of a centralized verifying server that would confirm that the proofs of work sent between users were legitimate. Users would create their own Bit Gold in their machines, and then send them to others by email as payments. 

The system did not take off because the centralized server was a point of failure, but the verification process was a key contribution to the industry.

## Bitcoin and Ethereum Classic

![Bitcoin and Ethereum Classic](./btc-etc-course.png)

> What Satoshi Nakamoto did was to integrated all these pioneering ideas into Bitcoin, and then Ethereum Classic adopted the majority of Bitcoin’s model for its base security. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What Satoshi Nakamoto did was to integrate all these pioneering ideas into Bitcoin, and then Ethereum Classic adopted the majority of Bitcoin’s model for its base security. 
```

> What Satoshi Nakamoto did was to integrated all these pioneering ideas into Bitcoin, and then Ethereum Classic adopted the majority of Bitcoin’s model for its base security. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What Satoshi Nakamoto did was to integrate all these pioneering ideas into Bitcoin. Ethereum Classic then adopted the majority of Bitcoin’s model for its base security. 
```
